all right Sagar what's on your radar
well on Monday you all heard my praise
her Republican senator Josh Hollies plan
released Friday it would keep every
single fired American worker on payroll
and even would apply retroactively Li to
anyone let go at this point as the
Senate the time it is the most
economically progressive legislation
introduced to date and it represents a
possible sea change moment for the GOP
and as I also said at the time I was
sure some of the more traditional
corporate elements within the GOP would
fight it with everything they had and I
was right though there's still a small
glimmer of hope the proposals so far
coupled with the past efforts of Senator
Marco Rubio put forward a playbook for
populist to wield power against
corporate elements of their party and
get at least some of what they want in
whatever turns out to be in the next
stimulus package the key battle lines
emerged Friday in Politico which Holly's
proposal sets up a class within the GOP
the politico story notes that many in
the caucus want to quote wait and see
how the last bailout package does before
any anybody else does anything and if
they do anything then they'll simply
step up the unemployment provisions or
add more money to the paychecks
protection program now look I think
that's fine but those who watch this
show know that these programs have their
own drawbacks and on their own simply do
not meet the economic catastrophic
moment that we live in the traditional
GOP thoughts were best summed up by John
Thune of the Senate GOP leadership he
told POLITICO quote the inks barely dry
on the two trillion that we have got
just signed into law the direct payments
haven't hit yet and then when we're
spending that kind of money we've got a
responsibility to see what works and
what doesn't I think you can read in
between the lines of what that means and
I would encourage the senator to look up
Herbert Hoover on Google if he wants to
see where an austerity mindset in the
middle of a literal depression will do
to your party another member of
leadership Shelley Moore Capito she says
that instead of the extension of the
paycheck protection program would be a
quote higher priority for Congress and
again I think that's great but the
problem right now is everybody from
private equity to venture capital firms
are scrambling to get the administration
to qualify them for small business loans
and through no fault of the designer
it is facing difficulty in
implementation but what puts Hollies
plan over the edge is that there isn't a
means test
nobody has to scramble for qualification
businesses get their payroll met in this
time of immense crisis mom-and-pop shops
do not suffer because of the political
connections of the financial industry
everyone gets made whole everyone makes
their rent on the other side we resume
our struggles policy aside however the
game was given away at the end of the
politico story when it noted that the
Paycheck protection programs extension
was the path of least resistance it
could garner support and of course make
it so the center's do not have to return
to Washington to you know do their jobs
and right now that seems likely Congress
is poised to vote Thursday to extend
another 250 billion to the program and
you know more power to them but from the
above quotes I've read from GOP senators
I know they would be very willing to
call it a day
just at that and that isn't enough the
Hawley plan and the current willingness
to fight for it and even to drag people
to Washington is how you actually move
the Overton Window on the right and
forced corporate dominated leadership to
listen to you and perhaps even
incorporate some of your ideas into
legislation and the reason he must and
we must fight for plans like this is
that it took just a matter of a month
for Marco Rubio's paycheck Protection
Plan to become the default option for
bipartisanship the weak way out for
corporate friendly elements extending
billions to small businesses is just the
starting point now from where most of
these GOP senators wouldn't have even
considered doing such a thing
a month ago that's how real political
change happens you force your opponents
to shift the ground that they stand on
so that even when they think they're
winning you have already won and it
shows how slow but sure efforts by
populist within the GOP can come to
define the party in the country in no
time and just to give you an idea just
how far Hollies move the Overton Window
with this move it even drew praise from
Nancy Pelosi's progressive challenger
Shaheen Butare who said quote this is a
surprisingly progressive move from a GOP
senator though I support universal
benefits and a
employer subsidies his approach carries
profound political risks for centrist
Democrats they are so committed to the
pass they risk they risk missing the
future and I thought that was from well
that was well said but also just when it
goes to show like Nancy Pelosi's
progressive challenger is praising this
particularly Holly yeah in America the
reason I think that it's very important
for this plan to move forward and for
them is that as I'd laid out with the
Paycheck protection program which is
that just a month ago
imagine the default position pumping 500
billion of small business loan of loans
to small businesses and as we said there
are problems with the program people
aren't getting the loans the banks are
not implementing it properly there's a
lot of mess whenever it comes to things
like this yeah but with the Fed now
being able to give loans based on these
things to the banks
we're actually capitalizing these
institutions to a decent enough level
and it could work it's not going to be
the be-all end-all savior of the economy
but this is how fast you can change
ground in DC just like that but you have
to fight on the margins in order to get
some of what you want in order to
actually get it enacted and as I said at
the time I don't think it's actually
gonna happen but if elements of it like
with the Paycheck protection program get
instituted you can see how quickly so
when somebody proposes something even
more economically progressive they're
like no no we've already got our thing
right here and I think that is the most
profound thing of how the debate works
out well and why were they able to get
that it's because Republican and
Democratic leadership wanted their
corporate bailouts yeah so they had
leverage they were like we're not voting
for your massive corporate slush fund
your multi trillion dollar federal
reserve loan concierge corporate bailout
program with no oversight unless we at
least get this thing and more direct
payments more direct a one-time means
tested look as we've covered here is
wholly inadequate but the only reason
they were able to even get that was
because they were willing to hold
hostage something that the leadership of
both parties really wanted moving from
here forward I don't see that they have
any leverage to get anything more that
they want and look Bernie Sanders is
actually I mean there
very similar to the Holly proposal he
wants a hundred percent of paychecks to
be covered very similar approach it's an
approach that other countries around the
world have taken that seems to worked
out better for them because it's kept
workers in their jobs which is you know
important of course we can talk about
how many of those jobs we're so great to
start with but let's begin let's start
there with people keeping the jobs that
they have but I don't see how it happens
because you have nothing left to value
to hold out over because they already
got their big corporate there's one
thing they do have value which is these
senators do not want to come back to
watch ya leverage because it's also just
like I think if you ask the American
people should these people be in
Washington doing their jobs like 97% of
them would be like of course they should
be of course
right so in terms of a public messaging
perspective that's not nothing
ya know it's not nothing and on Thursday
they're gonna try and pass this thing
through a unanimous consent where one
person can hold it up whether that's
gonna happen I don't know but I do know
that they're gonna face look the
political conditions of this are just
impossible for them to ignore especially
in the three weeks so let's say that
nobody objects in the unanimous consent
they're gonna come back they're going to
have to pass something there's just no
question 250 billion extra for the
Paycheck protection program is great but
that is when I think the real fight
whilst begin to occur again because
again we don't know yet what the actual
battle lines will emerge on this Nancy
Pelosi and them are you know they
haven't actually had anything other than
increasing the direct cash payments or
increasing small business that generally
seems to be the bipartisan position but
it could be on holding up key elements
of that in order to push what they need
into the plan and I think the ultimate
leverage will actually just be the
political conditions on Thursday we're
gonna get our new unemployment numbers
what is that gonna be maybe 20 million
yeah I don't care I mean I think what
they care about is what if we see it
both times when we got these
unemployment numbers and then stock
market jumps up the next day I mean it's
just it's honestly it's disgusting and
how it shows how disconnected the
reality of people's lives are from these
indicators like the stock market that
we're supposed to be so obsessed with
but that's all they care about if the
markets were to tank again in the way
that they were then you would have
some leverage but as long as the markets
are recovering and chugging along and
not falling off a cliff the way that
they were and I haven't looked to see
how futures are this morning but as long
as that's the case they don't they don't
care to do anything yeah when we have to
hope for a couple of conditions a that
we know the economy is rotten I think we
know that a B which is a lot of a
disaster or turfed and the stock market
doesn't actually reflect the real
economic condition all right and so what
we're gonna see is look I mean a lot of
the things that we've predicted on this
show corporate map mortgage crisis
that's all going to happen you don't
actually have the numbers yet we'll talk
about it later in the show about the
amount of rent financial contagion
within the system is still incredibly
possible yeah the fact that Wall Street
I mean that's this is the fakery of the
Dow Jones and so much of this it's all
just like day-to-day bets based on like
whatever material conditions and they
don't incorporate a lot of long-term
strategy I would say there's a general
bet that they're still going to be
economic catastrophe yeah over the next
month and a half to two months this puts
you in the place where you can push for
becoming what might be the default
position and that's where people I think
like Hawley Bernie Sanders and some of
these others you can set up the
conditions for the 595 win because
that's ultimately what happened with I
mean look nobody wanted to do paycheck
protection program at the time but Marco
Rubio teamed up I think was Ben Cardin
with another Democratic senator they got
it passed with like very little support
because they were willing to tie it into
direct cash payments and into the
corporate bailout this time around we
don't yet know what those conditions are
but what I can see is that there's an
opening is that opening did happen and
ultimately they moved it so the
bipartisan thing is to give people you
know incredible like a lot of money
based upon what their past positions
would have been for an extra 250 billion
getting the Federal Reserve involved
that's not nothing
yeah shouldn't say look I don't think
it's enough and that's I mean that's the
whole point of this all right
oh of this monologue is that none of it
is enough but is that that is how you
slowly can take change because none of
these people would have supported it and
about two months ago and two months ago
they would have said I never would
support a program like this you use the
crisis in order to push things slowly
it's never gonna be very satisfying I
think that's the real problem with all
of us I'm just not convinced that any of
them is actually willing to go hard
enough to get any more than they've
already gotten honestly I mean you
remember Thomas Massie wouldn't
everybody come back and but do you
remember how he was a school
created by the media and look I'm not a
big Thomas Massie fan and his objections
to the bill were not the same objections
as mine but he was actually willing to
be like no people should have to vote on
this and I mean the Democrats and the
forever even try he's Celsus just
imagine calling someone selfish for
wanting our legislators to come back to
Washington DC and do their jobs in the
way that so many of you are still
required to do which are out there on
the front lines as essential workers
often without any sort of real
protection often without hazard pay etc
these costed privilege people think it's
selfish for them to have to come back
and do their job so it's just a lot that
you have to be willing to take on if
you're gonna take that stance and
frankly I haven't seen the willingness
yet no nobody's ever willing I mean look
everybody vote for they all that if
everybody voted well it didn't end up
forcing a real roll call vote so that
their names would be on the record yes
or no so there's there's there's reasons
for optimism and reasons for pessimism
so leave it there next on rising rent
was due Monday in front of the show will
Jolanda is gonna tell us what he's doing
to get some help to renters right here
in the DC area when rising continues